## Magazine info: 
One link to the magazine issue:  [Ahoy_1985_January](https://archive.org/details/Ahoy_Issue_13_1985-01_Ion_International_US)
____

## Alice in Adventureland for C64 - description from the magazine

By Bob Spirko

"I'm late! I'm late!" cried the White Rabbit, glancing at his watch as he ran duwn the path . Alice stared in wonderment as the well-dressed animal ran close by her. She had never seen a rabbit that carried a watch, let alone one that wore a waistcoat, and so, burning with curiosity, she took off after it. 
She followed the rabbit across a field to see it pop down a large rabbit hole. Without thought to the consequences. Alice jumped in after it. only to find herself falling. She fell for what seemed to be a very long time before landing safely (for she fell very slowly). She found herself in a small room with a single opening. Through it, and far ahead, Alice saw the White Rabbit as it disappeared around a corner. But as she started towards the doorway she noticed a small glass table (which certainly was not there before). On it lay a small fiat box. "Oh. I can catch up to the rabbit later," she said to herself (although she really was not sure that she could), and went to examine the box. It appeared to be a computer of some sort, as it held a small LCD screen that read "LEVEL I" and "MAP." Also the outline of a rectangle was displayed, and within it was a tiny white square in the corner. "Oh! That must mean that I am in the corner on the first level." the precocious girl deduced. 
Pleased to have such a useful device. Alice set off to find the White Rabbit, unaware of the many dangers and obstacles that lay ahead of her. As a child I was fascinated by Lewis Carroll's Alice in Wonderland and Through The Looking Glass. These colorful stories provide an excellent theme for an adventure game. In Alice, there is plenty of action, color, and sound as you maneuver through Adventureland. avoiding hazards and .searching for gold. keys. and. ultimately, the White Rabbit. Adventureland is actually a com- plex of six levels and over two hundred rooms, only one of which holds the White Rabbit. RUN the program and you will be asked if this is a new game or a continuation. Press N and a menu appears. Alice is moved by Pressing the Z and X keys to move up and down, and < and > to move left and right. Once a key is pressed. Alice will continue to move in that direction until another key is pressed, an obstacle is encountered, or another room is entered. To end the game press f1 . Below the menu, you are asked to select the speed at which you would like Alice to move. You may wish to go slow until you get used to using the keys in this manner.
move. You may wish to go slow until you get used to using the keys in this manner.
Now the screen display is set up. Together, the LEVEL number and the MAP (which is a six-by-six grid) will show you the exact room that you are currently in. Under these are six boxes, empty now, that will hold your keys as you find them. Below this is kept a count of the gold coins that you find. Once the glass table appears you are ready to go. Press X and Alice will enter the north room.
As you explore Adventureland you will encounter a number of rooms bearing various devices:
STAIRS: If Alice enters a room with a staircase going up or down, you will be asked if you wish to use them. If so, press the space bar and Alice will appear in the room above or below. If not, press any other key.
ELEVATOR: You can get to any level you wish by using the stairs but, as the stairs are not aligned, it is a tedious process if you want to ascend or de- scend more than one level at a time. The elevator is used in the same fashion as the stairs except that af- ter pressing the space bar you will be asked for the level number. Once entered, you will be whisked to the desired level. You need the pink key to operate the elevator.
GREEN DOOR: Most rooms have openings that allow you easy access, but many rooms will have green doors. Normally these impede your progress, but with the green key these will open automatically after you enter the room. (For easy reference, the color of any key matches the color of its device.)
PIT: If you encounter a room with a pit and you are not carrying the blue key, the floor opens up and you will find yourself in the room below. With the blue key, however, you are allowed safe passage.
LOOKING GLASS: The looking glass will trans- port you to almost any room in Adventureland. In- stantly. Unfortunately, you have no choice as to which room. The purple key saves you from this fate.
GRYPHON: So maybe you have collected a few keys and are feeling rather confident. But then there's the Gryphon! If you are in the line of flight of this creature (and there is no escape if you are), you may have a key stolen. The more keys you have, the more likely you are to be relieved of one. The stolen key is then deposited in another room. The Gryphon flies only east to west, so there is no risk if you enter the room from the north or south. You will never lose any key once the yellow key is in your possession.
WHITE DOOR: There are not many of these and only one will lead to the White Rabbit. But you need the white key to get in.
CHESHIRE CAT: This is your ally. Finding a half dozen keys in a couple of hundred rooms rife with dangers and setbacks can be quite a chore. The cat will tell you where to find a particular key, even if it is one that you have lost. You will find the cat on each level, and the key that it mentions corre- sponds to the level that you are on. On the first lev- el, it will tell you where to find the first key (e.g., YOU WILL FIND THE ELEVATOR KEY IN THE SE SECTION OF LEVEL 5).
GOLD COIN: You do not have to rely on finding a key to possess one. Gold coins appear throughout Adventureland. Whenever you enter a room with a gold coin, it is added to your collection. Once ten gold coins have been collected you will receive a key of the lowest priority not in your possession (see below). If you have all six keys and ten coins, the location of the White Rabbit is revealed to you.
RESTAURANTS: When you enter a restaurant you will lose a gold coin. Unlike the keys, lost coins cannot be recovered. As in the real world, there is no safeguard from losing your money once you enter a restaurant.
Keys are arranged by priority:

KEY COLOR       DEVICE
1. pink         elevator
2. green        green door
3. blue         pit
4. purple       looking glass
5. yellow       Gryphon
6. white        white door

The first three keys are readily accessible, while obtaining the higher priority keys requires one or two other keys. For example, a high priority key may reside in a room with a green door as its only entrance (although any key that is stolen will be placed in a readily accessible room). If that room currently holds a gold coin, that coin will be displaced.
What makes this game especially interesting is that you will be constantly finding and losing keys, so that you must conduct yourself accordingly. Go- ing from point A to point B with the elevator and looking glass keys will involve an entirely different route than if you had only the keys for the green door and pit, and different again with yet another combination of keys. Having all six keys allows you a great deal of freedom of movement, but you don't need them all to find the rabbit.
At times, you will probably consider using the pit or looking glass as a crude means of getting around when you don't have that device's key. For instance: you find yourself on the sixth level without the elevator and looking glass keys. If you want to get to the first level quickly, you might chance the looking glass, for in all likelihood it will bring you closer to your destination. But, aside from the risk of losing a key or gold coin, you could also end up in a room that has only doors. If you do not have the appro- priate key(s) you are trapped. Furthermore, you could even find yourself in a room with no openings and no doors!
Since you are not likely to finish the game in a day, let alone an hour, you can SAVE your position for another time. Press f1 to end and you will be asked if you wish to continue. If so, you will be instructed to press RECORD/PLAY. To resume the game, instruct the computer that you are playing a continuation and you will be asked to press PLAY. Once LOADed, it will skip the menu and set you up in your previous room along with any keys and gold coins that you had.

____
